# Introduction

## Overview

- 모듈 번들러이다.
- CommonJS 및 AMD 같은 이전의 특이한 솔루션 대신 ES6 개정판에 포함된 코드 모듈에 새로운 표준화된 형식을 사용한다.
- ES modules let you freely and seamlessly combine the most useful individual functions from your favorite libraries.
- This will eventually be possible natively everywhere,
- but Roolup lets you do it today.

## Installation

- ```
    npm install --global rollup
   ```

- This will make Rollup available as a global command line tool.
- You can also install it locally,
- see Installing Rollup locally.
  - <https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/#installing-rollup-locally>

## Quick Start

- Rollup can be used either through a command line interface with an optional configuration file, or else through its JavaScript API.
- Run `rollup --help` to see the available options and parameters.
- See `rollup-starter-lib` and `rollup-starter-app` to see example library and application projects using Rollup.

- For browsers:

  - ```
        # compile to a <script> containing a self-excuting function ('iife')
        rollup main.js --file bundle.js --format iife
      ```

- For Node js:

  - ```
        # compile to a CommonJS module ('cjs')
        rollup main.js --file bundle.js --foramt cjs
      ```

- For both browsers and Node.js

  - ```
        # UMD format requires a bundle name
        rollup main.js --file bundle.js --foramt umd --name "myBundle"
      ```

## The Why

- Developing software is usually easier if you break your project into smaller separate pieces,
- since that often removes unexpected interactions and dramatically reduces the complexity of the problems you'll need to slove,
- and simply writing smaller projects in the first place isn't necessarily the answer.
  - (isn't necessarily the answer) <https://medium.com/@Rich_Harris/small-modules-it-s-not-quite-that-simple-3ca532d65de4>
- Unfortunately, JavaScript has no historically included this capabillity as a core feature in the language.
- This finally changed with the ES6 revision of JavaScript, Which includes a syntax for `importing` and `exporting` functions and data so they can be shared between separate scripts.
- The specification is now fixed,
- but it is only implemented in modern browsers and not finalised in Node.js.
- Rollup allows you to write your code using the new module system, and will then compile it back down to existing supported formats such as CommonJS modules, AMD modules, and IIFE-style scripts.
- This means taht you get to write future-proof code, and you also get the tremendous benefits of...

## Tree-Shaking

- in addition to enabling the use of ES modules,
- Rollup also statically analyzes the code you are importing, and will exclude anything that isn't actually used.
- This allows you to build on top of existing tools and modules without adding extra dependencies or bloating the size of your project.
- For example, with CommonJS, the entire tool or library must be imported.

  - ```
        // import the entire utils object with CommonJS
        const utils = require('./utils');
        const query = 'Rollup';
        utils.ajax('https://api.example.com?search=${query}) 
      ```

- With ES modules, instead of importing the whole utils object, we can just import the one ajax function we need:

  - ```
        // import the ajax function with an ES6 import statement
        import { ajax } from './utils';
        const query = 'Rollup';
        ajax(`https://api.example.com?seach=${query}`) 
      ```

- Because Rollup includes the bare minimum, it results in lighter, faster, and less complicated libraries and applications.
- Since thie approach can utilise explicit `import` and `export` statements, it is more effective than simply running an automated minifier to detec unused variables in the complied output code.

## Compatibility

- Importing CommonJS
  - Rollup can import existing CommonJS modules through a pluin.

- Publishing ES Modules
  - To make sure yoour ES modules are immediately usable by tools that work with CommonJS such as Node.js and webpack,
  - you can use Rollup to compile to UMD or CommonJS format, and then point to that compiled version with the `main` property in your `pacakge.json` file.
  - If your `pacakge.json` file also has a `module` field, ES-module-aware tools like Rollup and Webpack 2 + will import the ES module version directly.

## Command Line Interface

- Rollup should typically be used from the command line.
- You can provide an optional Rollup configuration file to simplify command line usage and enable advanced Rollup functionality.

## 참고

- (롤업 공식 문서, overview) <https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/#overview>
